Stenokey Project

Stenokey is an open source do it yourself stenographic keyboard project.  It is aimed 
at makers with some electronics experience (soldering) and who own a 3D printer 
or who have a friend with a 3D printer, though you may be 
able to complete this project if you know how to use a soldering iron and 
can find an inexpensive 3D printing service.  (My local public library 
will print objects for the cost of filament, which is extremely inexpensive, though 
I think that they might balk at printing the entire Stenokey part-set all at once.)

Stenokey connects to any desktop or laptop PC that has a USB port.  It is meant 
to work with the Open Steno Project's Plover software, which runs on Linux, Mac and 
Windows.  It supports NKRO keyboard emulation, as well as the serial Gemini PR, 
TX Bolt and ProCAT protocols.  In theory, the Stenokey should be compatible 
with commercial steno software that supports those serial protocols.

Stenokey uses the Matias Quiet Linear Switches, which won't stick or stall when 
keys are pressed off center.  Stenokey's smarts come from the Arduino compatible 
Teensy 2.0.  This microcontroller is capable of emulating both an NKRO keyboard 
and a serial port over USB.  

The Stenokey circuit board is based on the simple design principle of putting everything 
on the same circuit board.  The advantages are improved reliability, the 
elimination of unecessary cables and connectors, simplified assembly, 
reduced assembly time, reduced part count and lower material cost.  
Hopefully the low material cost puts this project in the realm of possibility for
more people.

Except for the plastic parts the cost of materials comes out to less than USD$50.  Of course
if you account for shipping and product minimum orders, you'll spend more.

Distribution

All of the Stenokey design files are available on Github.  The circuit boards can be 
purchased from SeeedStudio.  Except for the firmware and 
electrical schematic, the project is licensed with the CreativeCommons-ShareAlike 
license.  The firmware and schematic are licensed by Emanuele Caruso under the 
GNU GPL version 3 license.  All of the tools used to create the Stenokey project 
are open source or are freely available so that the design can easily be modified 
within the constraints of those licenses.  

To summarize both the CreativeCommons 
and GNU licenses, you can of course create copies of this project for your own 
use.  You can republish or create derivative works from this project and even sell them as products, 
however if you do, you must give credit to the original author(s) and share 
your own work.  Be sure to read the actual licenses for all of the details.  

History

The Stenokey project gained its name when I ran across Jason Cemra's Stenotoppers
on Mirabai's Plover blog.  I had recently purchased a small 3D printer, so 
I decided to try printing one of Jason's key caps.  It printed amazingly well. 
Printing that key was the start of the project as one thing lead to another.  

I was already familiar with Joshua Lifton's 
Stenosaurus project from the Plover blog, so I drew up some steno keys based on 
Joshua's key outlines, (while borrowing some of Jason's 3D design techniques).  
Those keys also printed well enough.  I had drawn the keys in OpenSCAD, so 
I was quickly able to generate several different variations of keys with 
various widths and offsets.

Next I bought some of the Matias Quiet Linear key switches.  (Those key switches 
were graciously made available by Matias through Joshua's efforts.)  I was able to get
my key tops to fit the Matias key switches without much effort (and a fingernail 
file).  I quickly found out that unlike the "other" key switches, the Matias key 
switches don't stick or stall when you press on a key off center.

I was also familiar with Emanuele Caruso's Stenoboard project.  All of his
designs for the Stenoboard project are available on line, including the 
electrical schematics and the firmware.  Starting from Joshua Lifton's keyboard 
layout, I referenced Emanuele's schematics to create the Stenokey 
circuit board.  With the different keyboard layout and schematic, it was 
also necessary to modify Emanuele's firmware, (which was simple enough to do 
since he writes excellent code).

In the middle of this I contacted Mirabai, because without her none of this 
happens.  She was highly supportive throughout the project.  She agreed to 
check out the design and eventually I sent her my prototype to test.  

Around the time that I contacted Mirabai, I decided that my prototype design 
was rather naked; too naked to send to someone else.  So I designed some more 
plastic parts to cover the prototype's bare bottom and top.  
Those covers weren't very professional, so I designed a clamshell case that
neatly encloses all of the electronics.  

Designing an open source project like this, ordering parts and building 
a few prototypes are only half of the work.  
I spent more time cleaning up the files and directories,
writing documents and getting everything set up for distribution on 
Github and SeeedStudio.  Hopefully the project will be well received.

The Stenokey project can be accessed via this URL:

https://github.com/mike-ady/Stenokey

Circuit boards can be purchased (minimum order 5) from Seeed Studio via this URL:

https://www.seeedstudio.com/Stenokey-g-1050040





